Welcome back.
Let's continue our discussion of what this scaleable idea means.
You remember that we talked about the kitchen and how similar to a kitchen we have to give instructions
to our machines to produce a result.
And in the previous video we talked about dysfunction Finding Nemo.
Let's measure the performance of this function.
Well javascript gives us a nifty little tool that comes built in to the browser which is where we're
running this code.
So depending on your language you might not have this option but you will have different ways of measuring
this.
Don't get too hung up on this.
We want to use this as an example to measure how long it takes for this function to run.
We can do this in javascript by saying let's say Time 0 is going to equal performance that comes built
in to the browser.
And we just say now add this to zero is going to start this timer before the loop happens.
And then when the loop ends I'm going to have another timer called T-1 and this is going to equal performance
dots now.
So we have two timers one at the beginning one at the end after the function goes through the loop to
find Nimo and then at the end we'll just do a fun little console dialog and we'll say that the call
to find Nemo took and can just do a simple Tiran minus zero and then we'll say milliseconds because
it's going to give us the results and milliseconds We'll see if this works.
I want to run this code and let me out a space in here and we see that it took zero milli seconds for
this code to run.
Let me run that again zero seconds again zero seconds zero seconds.
And if I keep clicking it I see that oh now it takes a little bit longer.
And that's because this is really fast right.
Are computers machines are extremely fast in this day and age and because we're only looping through
this once well it takes almost zero milliseconds and the display just round system.
But what if we had a bigger array let's say that we have an array over here that has cost every one
and it has all the characters or at least a lot of the characters from the movie Finding Nemo which
if you haven't watched it.
Amazing movie.
Highly recommend it.
Anyway we see that we have a lot more characters now.
So instead of just having a single array let's have the array everyone in here and this array now has
a lot more items has one two three four five six seven eight nine ten that's ten loops in here that
we're going to do if we run this.
We see that the time is still the same.
Pretty much zero milli seconds.
Sometimes a little bit more and the time changes all the time.
But we don't see that much of a difference do we.
I mean we ran from one loop to now 10 loops but it's still super super fast.
And again that's because our computers in this day and age are quite fast.
The difference between one loop and 10 loops is not that big.
But let's do a little fun trick here in javascript we can create a large array.
Let's just call it large and we can create a massive array by just saying new array.
And we'll give it a hundred items and this hundred items in the array we can fill it with let's say
Nimo and this is just going to create an array that has Nimo a hundred times
so instead of every wandless do large and hit rock right we see here that it's found Nimo a hundred
times because well we just fill there with the Nimo and at the bottom we see that it took point five
Moli seconds that took a lot longer.
Dinant let's do even bigger.
Let's do a thousand hit Ron took 7 milliseconds.
Now what if you do them bigger.
What if we had a massive array of 10000.
We had run 46 Meli seconds.
It's still pretty fast.
And then just for fun one more.
If I had run you saw that delay and how long that took that took three forty three milliseconds or three
point four seconds now what do we just see here.
Well we see that as our input grew our function find Nemo became slower and slower and slower.
Our run time how long it takes to run a certain problem through a function increased.
But here's the problem here.
If you take this code and run it on your computer while your time is going to be different than mine.
And I'll leave this code at the end of this video so you can play around with it.
You're going to get frustrated because every time you're on this code is going to be different than
my number.
It might be a lot faster a lot slower.
You see this all depends on how powerful the C.P. you in the computer is and what other programs are
running on your computer programming languages you're using and many other factors.
So there's all these factors at play here in our runtime.
Therefore if I speed my friend across the world let's call them Johnny and I tell him Hey Johnny my
code is so amazing I've created this fine Nimo function and it runs in three seconds 3.2 seconds with
hundred thousand inputs.
How good of a quarter am I.
And then Johnny says Ha that's really awesome.
But you know what.
Mine runs a lot faster runs in 1.5 seconds.
So I went.
What do you think do you think Johnny wins.
Does Johnny have better code than I do.
Well here's the thing.
Not necessarily.
This doesn't really mean much.
Because it matters what type of computer Johnny has what other factors.
As I mentioned before the code is running in.
So how can we determine who wins.
Do I win or does Johnny win.
Who has better coach.
And this is very common in the computing world.
We code on our laptops our computers but that code doesn't necessarily run on those devices.
If we have something like a server we may have that code run somewhere else on a different computer
around the world.
So how can we make sure that there is a way for us to measure in terms of efficiency what is good code
and what is bad code and what is code that can scale that as the number of arrays or inputs increases.
It doesn't constantly slow down more and more Big-O notation is the language we use for talking about
how long an algorithm takes to run.
We can compare two different algorithms or in this case functions using big-O and say which one is better
than the other when it comes to scale regardless of our computer differences.
And we can measure a big show like this.
I'm going to warn you that this will look really confusing at first.
And this is the first time we're seeing this diagram.
And don't worry by the end of this section this is going to make sense and you're going to be completely
fluent in this.
So just trust me and this.
Keep following these videos.
I know I'm kind of circling around the topic and not being directed as to what it means but I promise
you by the end of this this is all going to make sense and you're going to be a big ninja.
When we talk about big-O and scalability of code we simply mean when we grow bigger and bigger with
our input How much does the algorithm or function slow down.
If the list of characters let's say elements here so that is Nimo so characters in finding nemo in our
array as that increases how many more operations do we have to do.
That's all it is.
This is what we call algorithmic efficiency big-O allows us to explain this concept.
Remember how in our function we initially had an array of just one which was nimo.
So that is the number of elements.
Number of inputs in a function.
It was right here.
But then as we increase that array to have more characters and then we created that massive array of
100000.
So as that increases you saw that the number of operations or the number of things we do in the loop
increased over and over and different functions have different big-O complexities.
That is these number of operations can increase really really fast like this one which is not good.
You can see here that it's horrible and things that are quite good actually and don't increase as much.
And we're going to look at examples of different ones and how to actually measure this and what this
entire notation means but to end this video so we can dive deeper into the topic.
Just remember at this point when we talk about Big O and scalability of code we simply mean when we
grow bigger and bigger with our input How much does the algorithm slow down the less it slows down or
the slower it slows down the better it is.
So instead of using performance done now and using time to measure the efficiency of our function we
can just calculate how many operations a computer has to perform because each operation takes time on
a computer.
So big show allows us and concerns us with how many steps it takes in a function.
All right let's dig in deeper and deeper into this topic.
I'll see in the next video Bebai.